BSH Embraces
Robotic Process
Automation
and Accelerates
Digitalization
With the UiPath
Platform

Ayşe Kaptanoğlu, Research Manager, IDC Turkey
October 2021

Sponsored byIDC OPINION

Technological advancements have changed the way we work over
recent decades, and organizations have reformed themselves in the
process. So why is this time different? Why has work transformation
— or the ‘Future of Work’ — become such a disruptive force that
is altering corporate cultures, augmenting stakeholder roles, and
changing how business is conducted? And why are organizations
struggling to support and adjust to the new work experience?
The 21st century economy requires workers to operate as dynamic
and reconfigurable teams that can quickly adapt to new business
demands and market requirements at any time and from any
physical location. The COVID-19 pandemic has clearly highlighted
this necessity. As organizations accelerate and expand their
digital transformation (DX) initiatives, traditional work models will
prove to be deficient in terms of agility, adaptability, and scalability.
Moreover, employees will start to focus on higher-value activities
as they increasingly work side by side with ‘digital coworkers’. The
Future of Work is about the rise of the human as the new driver
of value — with skills such as imagination, creativity, and empathy
gaining prominence. This human-centeredness requires entirely
new work environments, organizational structures, and metrics for
success.
In this context, robotic process automation (RPA) solutions are vital
to the success of any company’s DX journey. RPA incorporates
digital workers — essentially, these are software robots that, when
initiated at predefined times or triggered by an external event,
can automatically execute deterministic, repetitive, standardized,
high-volume, and rules-based tasks by capturing and analyzing
structured data and working across several interoperable systems
(such as applications). The term RPA is also used by all industries to
point to the ‘digital workforce’.
To gain insights into how leading companies are improving their
automation processes, increasing productivity, and minimizing
operational risks via the use of RPA solutions, IDC recently spoke
with the service manager of  IA (Intelligent Automation) department
at BSH. The discussion centered on how BSH is using the UiPath
Platform to meet its rapidly evolving business needs.

2IDC Buyer Case Study
BSH Embraces Robotic Process
Automation with UiPath Platform to
Accelerate Digitalization

IN THIS
BUYER
CASE
STUDY

This IDC Buyer Case Study examines the key reasons
BSH chose UiPath to address its business requirements.
The study will show how organizations are seeking to
automate their centralized and distributed processes can
follow the example set by BSH. It will conclude by providing
practical guidance to companies aiming to bolster their
operational efficiency and employee satisfaction via end-
to-end automation.

3IDC Buyer Case Study
BSH Embraces Robotic Process
Automation with UiPath Platform to
Accelerate Digitalization

SITUATION
OVERVIEW

ORGANIZATION
OVERVIEW

BSH

BSH Hausgeräte is one of the world’s leading home
appliance manufacturers. The company’s portfolio
includes globally recognized brands such as Bosch,
Siemens, Gaggenau, and Neff, as well as Turkish
brands like Thermador, Balay, Profilo, Constructa,
Pitsos, and Coldex.
Founded in 1967 as a joint venture between Robert
Bosch (based in Stuttgart) and Siemens (Munich), BSH
has been 100% owned by Bosch Group since January
2015. Over its history, which spans more than 50 years,
BSH has grown from a German exporter into one of
the world’s leading home appliance manufacturers.
With around 58,000 employees worldwide, BSH’s
turnover in 2019 was around USD 14.75 billion.
BSH uses 40 factories located around the world to
produce its entire range of modern home appliances.
The product portfolio includes cookers, ovens and
extractor hoods, dishwashers, washers and dryers,
fridges, and freezers, as well as vacuum cleaners,
coffee machines, and food processors.
In order to meet constantly evolving consumer needs,
BSH is seeking to transform itself from a supplier
of home appliances into a company that offers
personalized digital functions, services, and content
(in addition to home appliances). For example, BSH’s
new cross-brand Home Connect platform supports
its rapidly growing ecosystem of connected home
appliances and consumer-centric services.

4IDC Buyer Case Study
BSH Embraces Robotic Process
Automation with UiPath Platform to
Accelerate Digitalization

SITUATION
OVERVIEW

CHALLENGES
AND SOLUTIONS

To stay competitive over the long term, industrial
machinery manufacturers need to ensure that they stay
relevant to their customers while generating additional
revenue streams. Digital platform strategies can play a
major role in this respect as they help manufacturers
differentiate their products. This differentiation can
be achieved by providing customers with relevant
value-added and data-driven solutions for connected
industrial machinery assets. Moreover, digital platforms
can include additional sales channels that allow
industrial manufacturers to boost sales of spare parts
or enhance the uptake of after-sales services.
According to a recent CIO survey conducted by IDC,
54% of organizations in Turkey have accelerated or
brought forward their digital road maps by almost one
year. Automation will be key to achieving these new
DX priorities as it empowers employees and allows
line-of-business leaders to focus on more strategic
objectives instead of spending time on mundane,
repetitive tasks. A December 2020 survey conducted
by IDC revealed that 70% of organizations in Turkey
will start investing in RPA or significantly increase their
spending on RPA over the next 12 months.
As a company, BSH has been carrying out numerous
projects during its DX journey that have boosted
the ROI of different internal functions. End-to-end
intelligent automation is one project within this DX
journey that will boot BSH’s operational efficiency and
employee satisfaction levels by removing repetitive,
low value tasks from workers’ daily schedules.
BSH started its automation journey activities with one
center of excellence in Istanbul in 2019. The CoE
is responsible for the platform management, RPA
development and raising awareness on intelligent
automation. Later, the development capability has
grown outside of the CoE by introducing local
development hubs which comprise of seasoned
citizen developers who are willing to develop RPA
for all the departments in their locations. There
are five local development hubs which develop
per respective location and the CoE covering the
rest globally. Moreover, there are more than 100
automated processes, 75 developers, 65 of which are
citizen developers working outside of the CoE. Finally,
software robots have been working around 4,000
hours monthly to execute all the automation.

5IDC Buyer Case Study
BSH Embraces Robotic Process
Automation with UiPath Platform to
Accelerate Digitalization

BSH used the Teamcenter product life cycle management
(PLM) application that made use of several technical drawing
and documents (such as those related to product data,
engineering change orders, material, and release/sampling
processes). The PLM application also utilized data-exchange
documents (called RFx) and standard BSH documents (such
as user manuals, specifications, and sample reports). This
application retains and shares product information, allowing
product life cycles to be monitored. BSH chiefly sought
out an RPA solution to prevent users from making errors
in manual processes, eliminate organizational errors, and
ensure regular reporting.
Teamcenter had a unique user interface that was difficult to
navigate. At the same time, the processes of the different
business units associated with Teamcenter were not
sufficiently understood and did not adhere to pre-set rules/
workflows. For these reasons, it was necessary to review and
define the working methods and processes used by business
units throughout the RPA project. The main objectives of the
project were to depersonalize all processes and prevent
them from being prone to errors. Reducing the burdensome
day-to-day tasks of employees was another key goal.
BSH conducted extensive research and held one-on-
one interviews to find the ‘best-fit’ solution provider. BSH
also hosted meetings with different companies that had
undertaken similar RPA projects. At the end of these
discussions, BSH decided to work with NTT Data as a
solution partner and UiPath as a technology provider, as
both companies provided the most appropriate solutions
and support. Their knowledge of BSH’s business processes,
having already delivered successful projects for the
company in the past, was also important. Main criteria for
UiPath’s selection were the human emulation capabilities
supported by its computer vision technology and ease of
use for its development environment to support faster path
to production.
Following the implementation of the UiPath RPA solution in
2019, BSH was able to automate numerous processes (such
as reminding users of assigned tasks, tracking delay times
with suppliers and reminding relevant purchasing officers
of the same, closing tasks with completed procurement
processes, and updating material release processes on
SAP). Moreover, BSH’s Çerkezköy team helped execute
the first RPA project within the company. This created a
very productive environment and provided team members
with experience for further RPA projects. BSH will find that
determining and developing business processes and
strategies will be much easier and more effective in future
projects.

6IDC Buyer Case Study
BSH Embraces Robotic Process
Automation with UiPath Platform to
Accelerate Digitalization

RESULTS

BSH garnered many commercial benefits from the UiPath solution. For example, the company
was previously unable to remind specific users of pending tasks. In addition, automation allowed
many new reporting processes to be implemented. Better and more accurate definitions of BSH
business processes were among the other unexpected positive outcomes. The value delivered
by UiPath was more clearly observed when the project went live. Thanks to this solution, an
average of 3,000 working hours are saved each year only from this one process in BSH total of
around 100 processes  working in BSH UiPath environment.
The UiPath end-to-end automation platform has delivered several management and significant
strategic advantages. Most importantly, BSH became the first company to carry out an RPA
project of this size on the Teamcenter application (this application is used by many different
organizations around the world). This project has helped BSH achieve positive results for
Teamcenter-related processes much earlier than its competitors.
In addition, UiPath enabled BSH to increase its operational performance. Better management
of processes, especially those linked with suppliers, led to financial and operational gains.
For example, prior to UiPath, tracking the status of many samples required a lot of email and
phone traffic. After the project implementation, returns that used to take days accelerated, and
production losses decreased. In terms of efficiency, the possibilities of daily human error were
eliminated and the reports submitted to management became more effective. An RPA use case
delivered in the call center saved 8,000 working hours of agents yearly in just one location.
Thus, BSH employees were able to focus more on productive workloads as they no longer
needed to carry out repetitive tasks.
The UiPath environment, which is a concrete example of ‘no code/low code’ practices in
general, is considered one of the most important applications at BSH. This implementation
allows users to automate simple-but-time-consuming daily processes without the need for deep
coding knowledge. As a result, daily routine work will be replaced by creative and innovative
tasks. Moreover, the project will be rolled out in other BSH locations and factories, especially in
Çerkezköy.

7IDC Buyer Case Study
BSH Embraces Robotic Process
Automation with UiPath Platform to
Accelerate Digitalization

BSH’s RPA organization has established a competence center, and its client node/citizen
developer sub-units will act according to defined workflows/rules. Therefore, RPA practices will
create accessible environments, even for the smallest business unit. This will enable employees
to do their jobs more efficiently and attract the attention of other BSH departments that have not
yet internally employed RPA.
Many BSH processes that were previously created and managed by people are now free of
errors and delays. In particular, the BSH management team can obtain many easily accessible
reports that enable them to follow workflows. BSH has claimed that teamwork — as well as the
willingness to deal with challenges — is the most important goal in such projects. This project
revealed that humans are the most essential part of any enterprise’s digital success.

“The UiPath Platform has enabled BSH’s business processes to be redefined in a more
effective way. This was the first time RPA was rolled out on a complex platform such as
Teamcenter, and it will allow our employees to move away from routine jobs and work
in a more innovative way. This will definitely bring improved quality and performance
to our business in general.”
— Berke Menekli, VP IT REM, B/S/H

8IDC Buyer Case Study
BSH Embraces Robotic Process
Automation with UiPath Platform to
Accelerate Digitalization

ESSENTIAL
GUIDANCE

RPA holds great potential for companies with large-scale operations that are seeking to
achieve operational excellence and boost productivity. RPA is a critical component of
DX and plays a key role in automating tasks as well as entire business processes and
workflows. To optimize the results from RPA projects, IDC offers the following guidance:

Take an Agile Approach to RPA Implementations: Organizations should start small and take a
measured and phased adoption approach to avoid costly and lengthy deployments. By using a
business-led and outcome-based approach that scales RPA across different use cases, workers
can embrace changes at their own pace without undue duress. Organizations need to determine
what their current and future business needs are and identify exactly what they want to achieve
from any RPA implementation.
Make RPA and Intelligent Automation Part of the Organization’s DX Initiatives: The effects of
the COVID-19 pandemic will further accelerate the adoption of RPA and intelligent automation as
many organizations are now looking to ensure business continuity and resiliency via automation.
Intelligent automation will be one of the key technologies that will propel organizations through
their DX journeys. Organizations will invest significantly in automation to improve business
performance and scalability in these unprecedented times. Today’s organizations want to select
different deployment models that suit their needs and ensure that those models allow for the
consistent building, testing, implementation, and management of automated solutions. RPA has
often been cited as the essential first step toward automation, but it could be more accurately
described as part of a continuum of technology-enabled initiatives that bring intelligence into
the automation of business processes.

9IDC Buyer Case Study
BSH Embraces Robotic Process
Automation with UiPath Platform to
Accelerate Digitalization

Secure the Ownership of RPA Projects Within Each Business and IT Domain: RPA projects
are usually initiated by lines of business rather than IT, which means that internal workforce
resistance can be a critical barrier to fast RPA adoption. Organizations should therefore involve
their IT leadership teams from the outset; they should seek their input as business cases are
defined and suitable vendors are selected. IT leaders should also be reassured about the
business benefits of an RPA project, particularly as it can positively impact their IT workloads.
Their involvement is also necessary to scale up RPA as an enterprise-wide strategic initiative. In
every DX project, setting up the right organizational structure is as important as strategy, budget,
and vision. A DX project that does not include employees in the transformation process has no
chance of being successful.
Seek to Incorporate AI Technologies: Organizations need to find out how humans and software
robots — the hybrid workforce — can achieve greater outcomes together. It is worth noting,
however, that not all process automation initiatives require the use of AI. AI must be considered
wherever it can elevate the capacity of automation. Organizations seeking to build process
automation capabilities should consider the entire automation continuum, including solutions
based on self-learning and self-healing systems.
Ensure Selection of the Right Partner and Solution: Business leaders should think long term by
future proofing the solutions that are being scaled across their organizations and through different
functional departments. They should also ensure that RPA vendors can support intelligent and
attended automation to create synergies in human–machine collaboration. It is essential for
a provider to understand an organization’s business processes, current use of technologies,
culture, and available talent, as well as the key challenges that need to be addressed.
Realize that the Future of Work is Not Really About the Future: The Future of Work concept is
about the initiatives that companies need to pursue now. IDC believes those organizations that
embrace technological and organizational changes and cultivate an agile and dynamic work
environment with dynamic employee experience will gain a competitive edge.

10IDC Buyer Case Study
BSH Embraces Robotic Process
Automation with UiPath Platform to
Accelerate Digitalization

ABOUT
UIPATH
UiPath has a vision to deliver the Fully
Automated Enterprise™, one where companies
use automation to unlock their greatest
potential. UiPath offers an end-to-end platform
for automation, combining a leading Robotic
Process Automation (RPA) solution with a
full suite of capabilities that enable every
organization to rapidly scale digital business
operations.

11IDC Buyer Case Study
BSH Embraces Robotic Process
Automation with UiPath Platform to
Accelerate Digitalization

About IDC

International Data Corporation (IDC) is the premier global provider of market intelligence, advisory
services, and events for the information technology, telecommunications, and consumer technology
markets. IDC helps IT professionals, business executives, and the investment community make fact-based
decisions on technology purchases and business strategy. More than 1,100 IDC analysts provide global,
regional, and local expertise on technology and industry opportunities and trends in more than 110
countries worldwide. For 50 years, IDC has provided strategic insights to help our clients achieve their key
business objectives. IDC is a subsidiary of IDG, the world's leading technology media, research, and
events company.

IDC TURKEY
Zincirlikuyu Akademiler Sitesi,
D Blok Daire: 74
34340 Beşiktaş – İstanbul, Turkey
+90 533 666 55 87
www.idc.com

IDC Türkiye IDC Türkiye

Copyright Notice:
External Publication of IDC Information and Data — Any IDC information that is to be used in advertising, press releases, or
promotional materials requires prior written approval from the appropriate IDC vice president or country manager. A draft of the
proposed document should accompany any such request. IDC reserves the right to deny approval of external usage for any
reason. Copyright 2021 IDC. Reproduction without written permission is completely forbidden.

12